Welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
What’s in store for us this month?
If you’ve ever struggled
with feelings of inadequacy,
you’ll relate to the experiences
of Francis, Diego, and Carla.
They’ll tell us how they came to appreciate
their valuable place
in Jehovah’s congregation.
When tragedy strikes,
it’s easy to feel overwhelmed.
We’ll learn how a brother who struggled
to care for his family’s spirituality
got the help he needed
to regain his balance and his joy.
And in our new music video,
we’ll see how learning the truth
brings true comfort
to those who draw close to Jehovah
and his people.
This is JW Broadcasting for May 2023.
As Jehovah’s servants,
nothing brings us greater joy
than worshipping the true God.
But we are also human.
This means that from time to time,
any of us can—and probably will—
experience unsettling moments,
times when we question our worth.
For example,
have you ever wondered
about your true value in Jehovah’s eyes?
Have you ever experienced moments of anxiety
about your place in his organization?
Or have you struggled
with feelings of worthlessness?
Such thoughts can erode our joy,
and we might even begin to doubt
our personal worth to Jehovah.
If that has happened to you,
you’re not alone.
Centuries ago,
the writer of Psalm 94 revealed
that he too was overwhelmed by anxieties.
Let’s read it together.
At Psalm 94:19,
the writer is addressing Jehovah:
“When anxieties overwhelmed me,
you comforted and soothed me.”
Now, notice the footnote on verse 19:
“disquieting thoughts.”
These can arise from factors such as guilt
over the fact that we cannot do more
in the ministry
or in the congregation;
fear of the future, of being separated
from the ones we know and love;
and despair from being overlooked,
feeling that we don’t really matter.
“Disquieting thoughts” are real
and can overwhelm us at times.
They can rob us of our inner peace
and our sleep.
And if we’re not careful,
they can even stifle our prayers,
damaging our relationship with Jehovah.
Nothing would make Satan happier.
We never want that to happen, especially now,
since this old world is so near to closing.
So, what can help us to soothe
these disquieting thoughts?
In this month’s broadcast,
we will find the answer
in a heartwarming prophecy.
We hope that this inspired message
will provide a strong Scriptural basis
to help you
to dispel any feelings of inadequacy.
Which prophecy?
Well, please open your Bible
to Isaiah chapter 56.
Here we read
of one of the most touching expressions
of Jehovah’s appreciation
for two groups of people.
Both groups wanted to serve Jehovah,
but under the Mosaic Law, they were limited
or even disqualified from fully participating
in Jehovah’s arrangement for pure worship.
Who were they?
Let’s read Isaiah 56:3:
“The foreigner who joins himself to Jehovah
“should not say,
“‘Jehovah will surely separate me
“from his people.’
“And the eunuch should not say, ‘Look!
I am a dried-up tree.’”
Did you notice the two groups?
Foreigners, or non-Israelites,
and eunuchs, men who physically
could not produce children.
They faced very difficult
and possibly disheartening circumstances.
During Isaiah’s time,
uncircumcised foreigners
were allowed to live in Israel,
but they had no permanent ties
with the nation.
Because of their status,
they could not eat the Passover meal,
and as a protection,
the Israelites were not to associate closely
with them.
But many foreigners came to love Jehovah,
converted to pure worship,
and served Jehovah alongside his people.
They were called proselytes.
Nevertheless, even they could not fully
become part of the nation of Israel.
How would you feel
if you were a foreigner alive at that time?
Your biggest fear would be
getting cut off from God’s people.
Might you have disquieting thoughts at times?
Consider the second group.
Isaiah mentioned eunuchs.
These were men
who had their reproductive organs removed.
It was the custom of Eastern pagan nations
to make eunuchs out of some
of the male children taken captive in war
and then assign them
to serve as trusted officials
in royal courts or in other settings.
It appears that during the days of Isaiah,
some of these Gentile eunuchs
learned about Jehovah, came to love him,
and decided to align themselves
with Jehovah’s people.
These eunuchs enjoyed a measure
of acceptance among Jehovah’s people,
and they had the privilege
of worshipping Jehovah.
However, because they were eunuchs,
they could not become fully-fledged members
of the congregation of Israel.
Plus, at that time and in that culture,
they suffered great humiliation
in not being able to father children.
Do you think they experienced
disquieting thoughts at times?
We know they did.
But Isaiah reveals something significant
about this group.
Jehovah loved them!
In effect, Jehovah says to them:
“I know how you feel.
Now let me tell you how I feel about you.”
Let’s read Isaiah 56:4, 5:
“For this is what Jehovah says
to the eunuchs who keep my sabbaths
“and who choose what I delight in
and who hold fast to my covenant:
“‘I will give to them in my house
“‘and within my walls
“‘a monument and a name,
“‘something better than sons and daughters.
“‘An everlasting name I will give them,
one that will not perish.’”
I will give them
“something better than sons and daughters”
—“an everlasting name.”
Their physical limitations
did not diminish their value
in the eyes of our loving God.
Because of their whole-souled obedience
to him,
Jehovah would always remember them.
They would have an everlasting name,
“one that [would] not perish.”
Jehovah treasured these faithful ones so much
that he kept the memory of their service
“in [his] house and within [his] walls”
like “a monument,”
so as to cherish them daily.
Imagine how those eunuchs felt now,
knowing that their God
had something special reserved for them.
They knew Jehovah had heard their prayers.
They knew that their God
felt compassion for them.
All those disquieting thoughts
started to melt away.
Those comforting words
started to heal their broken spirit.
But why did Jehovah make these promises
to these two groups?
What did he see that others may not have?
We don’t have all the details,
but we do have some.
They are revealed to us much later in time,
and they give us valuable clues.
For example, in the book of Nehemiah,
we are introduced to two foreigners
who were living among God’s people.
There’s a significant detail
about their names.
Nehemiah 3:7 tells us that they were
“Melatiah the Gibeonite
and Jadon the Meronothite,”
who were of foreign descent.
Yet, their names tell a different story.
What do they mean?
Melatiah means “Jah Has Provided Escape.”
Jadon means “Jehovah Has Given Ear.”
How did they get those names?
These men were likely born in Babylon,
children of foreigners
who joined in true worship in Israel
and who were later taken captive
in 607 B.C.E.
The parents of these men
were not natural Israelites.
However, the names they chose
for their children
reflected their devotion and love
for Jehovah’s name.
And the fact
that these sons of non-Israelites
would want to share in rebuilding Jerusalem
shows how they themselves loved Jehovah.
How did Jehovah feel about these foreigners?
Notice his prophetic words as we continue on
at Isaiah 56:6, 7:
“As for the foreigners who join themselves
to Jehovah to minister to him,
“to love the name of Jehovah
and to be his servants,
“all those who keep the Sabbath
and do not profane it
“and who hold fast to my covenant,
I will also bring them
“to my holy mountain and make them rejoice
“inside my house of prayer.
“Their whole burnt offerings
“and their sacrifices
“will be accepted on my altar.
“For my house will be called
a house of prayer for all the peoples.”
Jehovah noticed that these foreigners
faithfully observed the laws of a covenant
that they could never be fully a part of.
In verses 6 and 7,
Jehovah was, in effect,
inviting them into his home
—“a house of prayer for all the peoples”—
Jew and foreigner alike.
Hearing these words
must have lifted their heavy hearts.
But Jehovah did more than just tell them
how much he valued them.
He showed them.
How?
Among the foreigners
who returned to the ruins of Jerusalem
in 537 B.C.E.
were a particular group of foreigners
who had become proselytes.
And they included descendants
of the Gibeonites,
a nation that had joined themselves to Israel
and served as “gatherers of wood
and drawers of water
for the assembly and for Jehovah’s altar.”
These descendants of the Gibeonites
had spent decades as captives in Babylon
for crimes they did not commit.
They had no land inheritance back in Israel;
they were servants.
Yet, they traveled back to Israel
and helped rebuild the temple
and the walls of Jerusalem.
What motivated them?
They loved Jehovah.
These descendants of Gibeon
expected nothing in return for their service,
but they did receive
something quite unexpected.
After the Israelites received
their apportioned land,
this group called the Nethinim,
who did not have a land inheritance,
were assigned a place to live.
Where would they be placed?
Outside the city?
In a slum?
In some abandoned part
of forgotten Jerusalem?
No!
The Bible tells us
that they were assigned to live in Ophel.
Now take a look at the map,
and see for yourself where Ophel is located
—right next to the temple!
Jehovah made these humble
“gatherers of wood” his neighbors.
This underscores how much Jehovah loved
and cherished these faithful foreigners
who, motivated by love,
did all they could to share in his worship.
What’s the lesson?
Both the eunuchs and the foreigners
were limited
in what they could do in God’s service.
From a human standpoint,
they were probably considered
less than ordinary, nothing special;
perhaps some even considered them outcasts.
That is not how Jehovah viewed them.
He knew each one by name,
he listened to their prayers,
and he viewed each individual
as a precious gem.
Where man sees the ordinary,
our heavenly Father sees the extraordinary.
To illustrate:
What do you see here?
If you are thinking sand, you are right.
Sand is one of the most common substances
on the earth.
To us, it typically looks bland and ordinary,
each particle identical to the next
—no color, no sparkle.
You never see someone show off
a sand necklace or bracelet.
But what happens if you look at sand
under the microscope?
To the naked eye, all sand looks the same
and is pretty dull.
But magnified a hundredfold or more,
each individual grain of sand
reveals distinct beauty.
We see parts of shells and crystals,
all contrasting in shapes and colors.
There is a treasure trove
in a handful of sand.
That is how Jehovah sees each of you.
Just as he saw
the faithful foreigners and eunuchs
for the precious gems that they were,
he sees you too.
Yes, you who may be restricted by age,
health, physical stamina, emotions,
or family responsibilities
from doing as much
in some spiritual activities
as you would like to.
But those limitations do not define you.
Remember that in God’s eyes,
your worth as a person
is not measured by how much you do
but, rather, how much you try.
With eternity and perfection in view,
Jehovah chooses to see, not your limitations,
but your potential.
When you serve Jehovah whole-souled
despite limited circumstances,
you sparkle in his eyes.
And because you shine so brightly
in Jehovah’s heart,
he will always help you.
He will always cherish you.
Do you remember
the faithful psalmist who wrote
about being overwhelmed
by disquieting thoughts
at Psalm 94:19?
In the very next line, he tells Jehovah:
“You comforted and soothed me.”
By the way, who wrote that psalm?
We don’t know his name, but Jehovah does.
And he carefully preserved
that unknown writer’s words
for thousands of years in the Bible.
Like the psalmist, the foreigner, the eunuch
—no matter the circumstances—
when you humbly serve Jehovah,
when you try your best,
your work is never fruitless.
An everlasting name
is reserved for each of you
because your heavenly Father cherishes you.
Even though we know Jehovah loves us,
at times we may wonder
where we personally fit in the congregation,
especially if we can’t do
as much as we used to.
In this video,
note how three regular pioneers
came to appreciate
their cherished place in Jehovah’s family
despite major changes in their lives.
Shortly after getting baptized,
I set the goal of becoming a regular pioneer.
Then I went to preach in an unassigned
territory where Miskito is spoken.
After that,
I started serving as a special pioneer.
And some time later,
I went to the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Some time ago,
I began to suffer from kidney failure.
So it felt like I wasn’t
doing anything anymore,
and I couldn’t go back in time.
I grew up in a Christian family.
My dad worked in the construction
of the Bethel branch
and then served as a Bethelite for some time.
My mom was a regular pioneer
when she was younger.
She also volunteered at Bethel,
and that’s how she met my dad.
Some years ago,
I started suffering
from severe anxiety attacks,
and that really affected me
in the congregation.
I started to compare myself to others,
and I did the same with my parents.
I felt I could never
live up to their example.
I grew up in a family
where I wasn’t made to feel—
I never really felt adequate.
I felt so worthless;
I felt very alone.
When my health problems began,
I started comparing myself.
I began thinking about what
I was able to do before
and about how my activity had gone down.
This Watchtower  study helped me to see
how some previous assignments
could help me to do things better
in my current assignment.
That helped me to think
about what I can do now.
I think this Watchtower  article
came just at the right time.
I’ve learned that comparing
myself to others is very damaging,
and it was bringing me down spiritually.
So now that I’ve set the goal
to stop doing that,
I’ve seen good results.
I’ve had the chance to make good friends
with older brothers and sisters
in the congregation.
And when some of them
needed help and turned to me,
I was happy to help them,
and that encouraged me a lot.
When I started going to the meetings,
I was somewhat afraid
I was going to be inadequate
in the congregation.
Paragraph 20 of this Watchtower  study
helps me understand that I should
use the gifts that the congregation
and especially Jehovah
have helped me to discover
to encourage the congregation.
For example,
having raised two children
alone as a young, single mother
(being able to do that),
I could help others in the congregation
who were going through the same experience.
I’ve set concrete goals for myself,
like helping to clean the Kingdom Hall.
Although it’s lighter work,
it’s helped me tremendously.
It gives me a lot of joy
to know that it’s for Jehovah.
Now I try to help out the congregation
wherever I can.
Speaking to an audience
might not be easy for me,
but Jehovah has helped me
to carry out my assignments.
And that has helped me to realize
my place in Jehovah’s congregation.
This has helped a lot
in developing my self-esteem
—not to dwell on the past,
on the old feelings of inadequacy,
or dwell on the perfection
that I used to demand from myself.
I discovered I have something good
to give to the congregation.
The brothers need the good deeds
that we’re able to do.
It gives me a lot of joy to see
that I can help others overcome their trials,
and this really helps me understand
that I do have a role in the congregation.
Did you see how Francis, Diego, and Carla
maintained their joy?
They prayerfully adjusted their viewpoint
and their spiritual routine.
Their stories remind us that sometimes
our circumstances change unexpectedly,
throwing us off balance.
Has that ever happened to you?
If so, pay close attention
to this next dramatization.
Caring for the needs of my family
is a source of great joy.
That was the life that was.
One drunk driver
and my wife was gone.
Our two children
had lost their loving mother.
The doctors were hopeful that my son
might regain the use of his legs,
but in the meantime,
we needed to adjust to this new situation.
My mum was such a support,
both emotionally and practically.
She helped with the children
while I went to work.
That way I was able
to care for the family’s physical needs.
It wasn’t easy.
I don’t know
what I would have done without her.
My fellow elders
were loving and considerate too.
They offered to lighten
some of my congregation responsibilities,
but I just wanted to keep busy.
I tried to keep on top of everything,
but spiritually things began to slip.
On more than one occasion,
I had to ask others
to cover my meeting parts.
Hello.
Hi, Simon.
Oh, hi, Oliver.
I’m so sorry.
I’ve been held up at work again.
Could you cover
the Treasures part for me tonight?
OK, no problem.
I’ll see what I can do.
Thank you.
I was just too tired
to prepare for family worship,
and the results were obvious.
Everything seemed overwhelming.
Even the simple things
were a struggle.
The meeting was great.
But Dad,
you missed Madison’s demonstration tonight.
I’m so sorry!
I had to work late.
Don’t worry, Dad.
Something had to give.
Maybe I needed to step aside as an elder.
I needed help.
So I reached out to a good friend, Simon.
I explained everything.
He really listened.
He empathized
and commended me for my efforts
and then shared Philippians 1:10 with me.
“. . . that you may make sure
of the more important things.”
Oliver,
it’s especially during challenging times
that we need to ‘make sure
of the important things,’
and the key to doing that is balance.
Come over here.
Simon used a simple illustration
that changed my perspective.
Just as a wheel can be out of balance,
a sudden change in our circumstances
can put us out of balance.
But skilled mechanics
can use small weights to rebalance the wheel.
The machine told Simon
where to position the small weight
so that the wheel could run smoothly again.
I got the point.
Regaining balance
might not involve big changes
but just a few smaller ones.
I understand.
Balance comes when we exercise faith.
Hebrews 11:6 reminded me that Jehovah
is “the rewarder
of those earnestly seeking him.”
And James 3:17 says
“the wisdom from above is . . . reasonable.”
I realized that my family’s spiritual needs
are one “of the more important things.”
And it’s OK to ask others for support.
Applying these Bible principles
helped me regain my joy.
Our circumstances may change,
but our Christian priorities do not.
They keep us anchored to our living hope.
My mum—
And we’ll be all together.
Thanks to Jehovah,
I was able to provide for my own
in the most important ways.
What helped Oliver
deal with such overwhelming changes?
The loving help he got
from his brothers and sisters.
The support we get
from others can ‘comfort and soothe us,’
just like the psalmist said,
especially when the world around us
makes us feel unwanted.
That’s been the case with some
of our brothers and sisters in Africa
who deal with a condition known as albinism.
As you hear their stories,
notice how they came
to feel not just accepted
but cherished in Jehovah’s eyes.
Well, my years in school were not easy.
Some would tease me,
others would laugh at me,
and still others would use
hurtful words toward me.
I felt unloved and not needed.
Sadly, my parents refused
to take me to school.
“The best you can do
“is to get rid of this child;
just throw her away.”
That is what my father
was told by his friend.
Prejudice against people with albinism
can be very cruel.
Those who are targeted
can be traumatized for life.
Albinism is a genetic disorder
in which ones eyes, skin, or hair
have little or no pigmentation.
People with this condition
struggle with vision problems.
Extreme sensitivity to sunlight
also puts them
at a high risk for skin cancer.
Beyond the physical challenges,
they also have to deal
with unwarranted social stigmas.
In some African countries,
people with albinism
are even attacked or killed
by those involved in spiritistic rituals.
This leads them
to live in isolation.
Tasila used to cry often
and feel down,
but since she has learned
the truth in the Bible,
she has found comfort.
What helped me to endure all these trials
was praying to Jehovah regularly
and reading his Word, the Bible.
The first scripture that touches me deeply
is Psalm 18:25.
This scripture touches my heart
—to know that if I continue
being loyal and righteous,
Jehovah cannot forget
and he will also “act in loyalty” toward me.
James was the target of intense ridicule.
He isolated himself
and felt worthless.
The scripture I love the most is John 17:3.
When I read this scripture,
I was very happy
because I realized that Jehovah values me,
or is concerned about me.
So this showed me that Jehovah loves me.
Judith has now spent 24 years
in the full-time ministry.
As a young girl,
she was the target of vicious ridicule.
She felt insecure and kept to herself.
Revelation 21:3, 4—
when I read this scripture, ah,
my faith is strengthened.
I feel very happy.
It’s only through diligent,
daily Bible reading
and attending the meetings with our brothers
and going out in the ministry
—this makes me strong and fortifies my faith.
Jehovah’s people love and accept
those who suffer from various conditions,
including albinism.
Tasila, James, and Judith
are among those who have experienced
that brotherly love and acceptance
in Jehovah’s organization.
There is a big difference
between how people of the world
and how the brothers view me.
The love they have shown me
has helped me prove that really
this is a spiritual family.
When I am among my brothers and sisters,
I do not see any difference
or think that I have different skin.
But I feel loved and happy.
I do not lack anything.
This is my spiritual family.
Whenever I am among brothers and sisters,
I feel happy and protected
because they show me true love.
Tasila serves as a zealous regular pioneer.
She has overcome illiteracy
and now knows how to cope
with hostility and prejudice.
Despite all the negative things
she faced in the past,
she’s now positive and cheerful
and has her life and hope
firmly based on Jehovah’s promises.
James still has to deal
with prejudiced people from time to time,
but he does not allow that
to make him bitter.
Rather, he chooses to respond
in a kind manner.
Judith has experienced
many disappointments in life,
but above all, she cherishes being
one of Jehovah’s people.
This overwhelming, impartial love
shown by fellow brothers and sisters
in the congregations
is a source of support and help
not only for individuals with albinism
but for anyone who struggles
with a challenging physical condition
or disability.
Yes, “mere man sees what appears to the eyes,
but Jehovah sees into the heart.”
“Mere man sees what appears to the eyes,
Those are the words found at 1 Samuel 16:7,
and it was one of the verses
we saw on the chalkboard in the video.
Jehovah certainly saw into the hearts
of James, Tasila, and Judith
and reassured them
of His love through the congregation.
Jehovah will comfort us
if we draw close to him and our brothers.
That’s the topic
of this month’s new music video.
It’s called Draw Close to Me.
Please watch and enjoy.
Feels like I’ve come home.
I was lost until Jehovah took me in.
Once, I faced my fears alone.
Now I share them all, all with him.
And he brings comfort to my life,
Makes me feel that I belong.
He says: “Draw close to me, close to me,
And I’ll draw close to you.
“I’ll help you see, help you see,
The good that I see in you
If you draw close to me.”
When I’m feeling low
And my heart begins to condemn me for my past,
Feels so hard to let it go.
So I pray to God it won’t last.
And just to know Jehovah cares
Lifts me up and gives me hope.
He says: “Draw close to me, close to me,
And I’ll draw close to you.
“I’ll help you see, help you see,
The good that I see in you
If you draw close to me.”
Before I ever knew his name,
He saw the best in me.
And now he’s just a prayer away,
My God eternally.
He says: “Draw close to me, close to me,
And I’ll draw close to you.
“I’ll help you see, help you see,
The good that I see in you
If you draw close to me.”
Did you catch the lyric
in the song that said,
“He’s just a prayer away”?
Those are powerful words to remember
when we’re faced with daunting tests.
Jehovah can give us
not just comfort but also strength.
Notice how that’s highlighted
in this talk by Brother Lett.
The theme for my discussion
is “Never Let Satan Intimidate You.”
To intimidate means to try to get someone
to do or not do something by bullying,
terrorizing, threatening them.
And of course,
Satan is a god of intimidation.
That’s one way he tries
to get people to do what he wants.
On the other hand,
Jehovah always motivates by love.
The word “intimidate”
is found twice in the Study Bible  notes.
And the word “intimidated”
is found once in the main text of our Bible,
Deuteronomy 1:17,
where the judges
who were to assist Moses were told:
‘Do not be intimidated by men;
render impartial judgment.’
But now, even though these words
are not used so much in the Bible,
the idea is found many times.
As a few examples,
think of Goliath
—who was nine and a half feet (2.9 m) tall—
trying to intimidate young David.
Remember what he said to him?
First Samuel chapter 17, he said:
“Just come to me,
and I will give your flesh
to the birds of the heavens
and to the beasts of the field.”
‘Just come to me, little boy,
and I’ll feed your corpse
to the buzzards and hyenas’
—big-time intimidation.
Or what about the Rabshakeh
in loud, fluent Hebrew
trying to intimidate the Jews
in the time of Hezekiah
or Sanballat and Tobiah
trying to ridicule Nehemiah and the Jews
for building the wall?
Or another example
found in today’s Watchtower  comments
was that Nebuchadnezzar
really tried to intimidate the three Hebrews
into worshiping an idol.
How did he do it?
Well, Daniel 3:1 says
he erected an immense image
almost 90 feet (27.4 m) tall
and 9 feet (2.7 m) wide,
and that was intimidating in itself.
But then he assembled, according to verse 2,
a huge throng of people:
“satraps, prefects, governors, advisers,”
etcetera, etcetera
—an intimidating throng.
And then in verses 4-6,
he had it loudly proclaimed:
‘You are commanded, . . .
‘when you hear the horn,
the pipe, the zither, . . .
‘you must fall down and worship this image.
‘And anyone who does not do so immediately
will be thrown
into the burning, fiery furnace.’
Very intimidating
—but those three Hebrews
remained unintimidated.
But of course, Satan, as we said,
still tries to use intimidation today.
‘If you don’t take this blood transfusion,
you will surely die.’
‘If you don’t accept this job
‘(talking about a job
that’ll damage you spiritually),
your family will starve.’
‘Why won’t you smoke this cigarette?
Are you afraid?
Are you chicken?’
‘Why won’t you date
this girl in your class who likes you?
Are you a homosexual?’
Today, Satan uses intimidation.
First Peter 5:8 says
that the Devil
“walks about like a roaring lion.”
And often those roars
take the form of intimidation
—kind of like the roars of a literal lion,
according to the Insight  book,
are calculated to cause domestic animals
to stampede and break out
of their protective enclosure.
But, now, here’s a question:
What lessons can we learn
from those three Hebrews
that will help us
to never let Satan intimidate us?
Well, here are a few lessons.
One: Never quit trusting Jehovah
with all your heart
despite the roars of the Devil.
If you go to Daniel chapter 3,
notice how they put implicit trust in Jehovah
despite this intimidating situation
—chapter 3, verse 16:
“Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego
“answered the king: ‘O Nebuchadnezzar,
“‘we have no need
to answer you in this matter.
“‘If it must be, our God whom we serve
“‘is able to rescue us
from the burning fiery furnace, O king,
“‘and to rescue us from your hand.
“‘But even if he does not,
let it be known to you, O king,
“‘that we will not serve your gods
or worship the image of gold
that you have set up.’”
See, they trusted Jehovah.
Now, here’s another lesson:
Holy spirit will help us remain calm
—not panic—
and give a good answer to our persecutors.
When you think about what we just read,
the answer they gave
—amazing composure—
amazing answer they gave.
Obviously, holy spirit
was working powerfully upon them.
And we’re promised
the same will be true for us.
At Luke 12:11, 12, Jesus said:
“When they bring you in
before public assemblies,
“government officials, and authorities,
“do not become anxious
about . . . what you will say,
“for the holy spirit will teach you
in that very hour” what to say.
Now, here’s another lesson:
Jehovah can use his powerful angels
to rescue us from an intimidating situation.
In the case of the three Hebrews,
they were rescued miraculously.
When the king looked into that furnace,
instead of seeing
three men bound being cremated,
he saw four walking about freely,
the fourth obviously an angel.
Now, when they were
brought out of that furnace,
Daniel 3:27 says
they didn’t even have “the smell of fire.”
No hair of their body was singed.
Now, we’ve been in homes
where people are smokers
and you pick up
that smell of smoke very easily.
Talking about singeing your hair,
hair singes very easily.
Some time back
I tried to light a gas stove using a match.
I didn’t get the timing exactly right.
It blew back
—burned about half the hairs off my arm.
But here, they didn’t have a hair singed,
not even the smell of smoke.
Now, today, we don’t expect Jehovah’s angels
to deliver us miraculously.
But Jehovah can use them
to maneuver circumstances.
So we find a job to provide for our family.
So we find a cooperative doctor
who respects our stand on blood,
as just a couple of examples.
Or he may use the angels to strengthen us
to be faithful
in the face of that fiery test.
Now, here’s another lesson we can learn:
Firm belief in the resurrection
can powerfully fortify us,
even if we’re threatened with death.
Undoubtedly, those three Hebrews
knew Job’s words
of Job 14:13,
where Job asked Jehovah
to conceal him in the grave,
set a time limit,
and then remember him—resurrect him.
Likely, they were familiar
with the resurrections of Elijah and Elisha.
Now, they didn’t know
if they’d be miraculously delivered,
but they did know they would be resurrected
if they kept their integrity.
The same is true with us today.
And that firm belief in the resurrection,
if you think about it,
strips Satan of his power
to intimidate us even in the face of death.
You could say that hope
is like our secret weapon.
Now, here’s one more lesson we can learn:
Remaining staunchly unintimidated
will give a powerful witness to onlookers.
Do you remember what the king said
when they came out unharmed
from that furnace?
He said: “Praised be the God of Shadrach,
“Meshach, and Abednego, . . .
“for there is no other god
who is able to rescue like this one.”
And think about this,
if Nebuchadnezzar
and other Babylonian onlookers
are resurrected as part of “the unrighteous”
mentioned at Acts 24:15,
this experience will give them
a head start in the new world
on taking a stand with Jehovah.
And think about even the men
who threw them
into the furnace who died doing so.
Now, if they’re resurrected,
they’ll be told about what happened
subsequent to their untimely death.
And undoubtedly, that will be an impetus
toward spiritual progress in the new world.
Well, the same is true today.
When we stand firm, unintimidated,
we give a powerful witness.
And there are many that are now in the truth
as a result of such a witness.
Well, there we have five
anti-intimidation lessons
we can learn from those three Hebrews.
In review: Never quit trusting Jehovah
despite the roars of the Devil.
Two: Holy spirit will help us remain calm,
not panic, and give a good answer.
Three: Jehovah can use
his angels in various ways
to rescue us
from intimidating circumstances.
And number four:
The resurrection hope
will powerfully fortify us
not to be intimidated
even in the face of death.
And number five:
Remaining staunchly unintimidated
will give a profound witness to onlookers.
So may all of us,
like those three Hebrews, be determined
to never let Satan intimidate us.
Jehovah promises to give all of us strength,
including young ones.
Our young brother Elijah was just a teenager
when he faced a life-changing situation.
Here’s his story.
So how can we continue to be faithful
in spite of our human weaknesses?
Growing up I had, like,
absolutely no health problems at all.
And I loved playing basketball, and I enjoyed
my life in the congregation.
This was a kid who had
his whole life in front of him.
It was taken away in a moment.
In November of 2019, I was diagnosed
with a massive brain tumor.
I was saying, like: “Why me?
Did I do something wrong?”
I wanted to know why it had to happen now
at 16.
I’m close to 18
when I think is, like, the prime of my life.
The night before I was going to have surgery
was probably one of the scariest nights
of my life.
So I wanted to be able
to still do the things that I loved,
and I really just didn’t want my life to end.
The account of David
was one that was very prominent in my mind.
There were many times in his life
when he had to fight foes
that were very scary and life-threatening,
and this situation I was dealing with
was pretty scary and life-threatening,
but I knew Jehovah had my back.
We talked about getting
the brothers from HLC there to talk
and to back us up
with the alternatives on his card.
The doctor was impressed
when he asked Elijah if he had any questions,
and Elijah asked him a couple of questions
about the procedure
and then also brought up the blood issue.
This showed the doctor
that this was a young man
who had his own stand, his own convictions.
If Jehovah tells me that blood is sacred,
then I’m listening.
Elijah kept on reminding us
that even if he doesn’t wake up
on this surgery bed,
no matter what happens,
he’s still going to wake up,
whether it’s now
or in the future in Paradise.
They finally came out
only to tell us
that there was a complication.
Elijah fell into a coma,
and we were waiting on answers
that the doctors weren’t able to give us.
It was roughly close to five months
that he was in a coma.
However, Jehovah kept providing
the friends, the support.
We kept getting texts telling us
just how many friends
were praying for Elijah
and for all of us to get through this.
In the spring of 2020
is when I gradually began to wake up.
It’s way harder to move around as I used to
—super painful and hard.
I have ataxia as of right now
temporarily in my right hand,
so I’m not able to perform certain activities
as well as I would like to.
In my heart, I love basketball
and I wish I could participate,
but knowing I can’t because of something
I can’t control physically
is really hard on me.
Job was always
a great example in the Bible to me.
I view him in a totally different light now
because he was also hit with a medical issue,
but he managed to maintain his faith,
and Jehovah eventually blessed Job for that.
Since the coma,
Elijah’s zeal definitely hasn’t lessened.
If anything, it’s increased.
He gives a whole new meaning
to widening out,
because we want to be as zealous
and as busy in the ministry as he is.
Elijah has not accomplished any of this
in his own strength.
He very quickly will give credit to Jehovah
but also will give credit to his family
for the amount of support that he’s received
and give credit to the brothers and sisters
for the support he’s received
from them as well.
He’s been engaged in the field ministry,
and he’s been active
in doing whatever assignments we give him
within the congregation.
We were able to appoint him
as a ministerial servant.
He’s got all this support.
He knows that Jehovah is with him
and that in that sense
Jehovah truly is at his right hand.
I know that we have a hope
that Jehovah has given us for the future
of perfect life.
It gives me a goal and more of a motivation
to help everyone reach that goal
and get there.
There’s light at the end of the tunnel,
so I thank Jehovah for that so much.
Elijah, you are a precious gem
in Jehovah’s eyes!
Our whole program
has highlighted that each one of us
has a special place
in Jehovah’s beautiful family.
As part of the family,
would you like to see the invitation video
for this year’s regional convention?
The theme is “Exercise Patience!”
When was the last time
you lost your patience?
on the road?
at work?
or at home?
Our busy lives
make it difficult for us to be patient.
But to enjoy life,
we need patience more than ever
—even if it’s being tested.
But what does patience really mean?
Does it mean we just passively wait
for something to change?
And how can patience affect our daily life?
The 2023 “Exercise Patience”!
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses
will show you what true patience is,
why we need it,
and how it can improve
our relationships with others.
God wants you to be happy.
And as our Creator,
he knows that exercising patience is vital.
For more information, go to jw.org.
Think of whom you can share
this invitation video with
so that you pique their interest.
Hopefully they will attend with us.
Would you like to see a little more?
This year’s convention will also feature
a two-part modern-day drama.
Now, we won’t give away the story line,
but here’s a preview to whet your appetite.
If Mom and Dad were alive,
they would be very proud of you.
You know what I’m thinking?
You could have more.
I’m talking about real security
for you and the family
—a government carpentry contract.
Radio 93.6:
As an update to our report from yesterday,
militia groups are threatening
to take over the capital.
Violence has been escalating in the area.
As you are aware,
the branch has recommended that we meet
and discuss the possibility
of civil unrest in our area.
There will always be rumors
surrounding the elections.
The safety of the congregation is the concern.
There’s no need to worry.
These are just threats, rumors.
There’s nothing to it.
We received direction from the branch.
Those brothers are so far away though.
I keep wondering
if they are being overly cautious.
Remember, Amani:
“Your strength
“will be in keeping calm
and showing trust.”
Wake up!
Are you still trusting these people to guide your life?
Father Jehovah,
please help me.
The Governing Body has approved
a new original song
to conclude the convention.
I’m happy to announce
that the song and lyrics
are now available for download on jw.org.
The Governing Body requests
that everyone practice before the convention
so that unitedly
we can sing out with all our hearts.
Some will need help to download the song.
Please keep them in mind
and provide help as needed.
Perhaps you can even practice singing
the song with them
in preparation for the convention.
As you can see, we have a lot
to look forward to in the months ahead
—further evidence of how much
Jehovah cherishes his people.
Now for this month’s video postcard,
let’s travel to the heart
of the Mediterranean Sea
where we find the island nation of Malta.
Malta is made up of five small islands,
three of which are inhabited:
Malta, the largest;
Gozo; and tiny Comino,
which has an area of just one square mile,
or about three square kilometers.
These islands are known
for their rocky coastlines
and steep limestone cliffs.
Malta’s location—with Italy to the north
and Africa to the south—
is reflected in its language.
Maltese is a blend of an Arabic dialect
spoken in North Africa
and a Sicilian dialect of Italian.
Spoken Maltese sounds like Arabic,
but it’s written using a Latin alphabet.
Maltese and English
are the country’s two official languages.
The many harbors and beaches
found throughout Malta
might bring to mind
its one and only mention in the Bible.
It was along these shores that in 58 C.E.,
the apostle Paul was shipwrecked
on his way to Rome.
The Bible says that the islanders
showed Paul and his companions
“extraordinary kindness,”
and many of the Maltese people today
have responded favorably to the good news.
In modern times, the preaching work
was established here in the 1970’s.
There are 11 congregations in Malta,
with over 800 total publishers.
Many people on the islands have migrated
from parts of Africa, Eastern Europe,
and the Philippines,
so the congregations preach
in eight different languages.
The brothers in Malta enjoy
public witnessing throughout the islands,
including the Port of Valetta,
where a Tagalog congregation
preaches to the many Filipinos
who work on the ships that visit the harbor.
On the island of Gozo,
there are two congregations
—one Maltese and the other English—
with a combined total of 112 publishers
and 34 pioneers.
The Bethel family in Malta,
along with the brothers and sisters in Gozo,
send their love to you all.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.